Hello everyone and welcome to the nearest neighbors project.
In this lecture we're going to be going over a brief overview of what the project entails.
Nerds do this let's go ahead and jump to the nearest neighbors project notebook.
OK here we are at the notebook.
Since Kinnear's neighbors is such a simple algorithm we're going to be using this project more as a
simple exercise to test your understanding of the different steps you have to take when implementing
cannoneers neighbors in our will be using the iris data center.
It's actually quite a famous data set and a lot of times it's a first dataset when machine learning
students are learning about classification.
It's a pretty small dataset only has about 100 or 50 observations.
The basic idea and you can actually click the link to the Wikipedia page for this iris flower dataset
is that this biologist took a bunch of measurements of iris flowers.
He took measurements other Sipple length Sipple with pedal length and pedal with and then noted what
species they were.
And the idea here is that you're going to be trying to use Kinnear's neighbor's algorithm to attempt
to predict what species of flower the iris is based off of its physical features in order to do that
you just need to call the Eisele our library.
And then the lowercase Iris dataset will be there.
Once you've done that you'll go ahead and standardize the data and you'll use skil function to do that
then you'll do a train test split on your data you will build a nearest neighbors model we'll use that
came nears neighbors function to predict the species of the test set.
You start off with Cahill's to one and then you'll check what you're misclassification rate was or your
error rate then you'll choose a key value using the Elbel method by plotting out the range of the misclassification
rate for k values from 1 to 10 just like we did in the previous lecture.
You should get a plot that looks something like this.
Notice it looks a little bit funky because the error goes down and then it starts coming back up again
.
And that's because of the size of the data.
So it's only about 100 of 50 features if you're only looking at the training or testing set that's even
less features excuse me observations and you'll get a little jump in error.
Overall the error rate should be pretty small and there's a further explanation of why this looks like
this in the solutions video lecture.
After that you have an optional assignment which is to check out the machine learning repository for
UCI.
If you click on that link in the notebook it will take you to the UCLA repository for machine learning
.
And once that page is loaded it looks like this.
Then you can go ahead and click here it says you may view all data sets.
There's a little hyperlink to view all the data sets and you can actually sort by the default task.
In this case for cannoneers neighbors you look for classification and go ahead and explore the various
data sets here.
A lot of the data sets that we've been using have been just directly taken from this machine learning
repository.
So this is a great source just like Kaggle for data sets where you can just practice what you know and
practice your machine learning skills with our.
OK.
Go ahead and get started on the Kinnear's Neighbors Project.
I will see it the next lecture for the solutions.
Thanks everyone.